Dream Shifter
=============

Cultists drag an unarmed human warrior before an altar, one more sacrifice for the beast god. In the blink of an eye the human’s hands transform into bear claws and his skin into feathers and flames. Panicked the cultists flee deeper into the temple as the surreal creature rises and gives chase.

The elf closes her eyes and dives into a wellspring of long- forgotten dreams, one containing the knowledge she needs right now. As she opens her eyes, the giant ice lizard hun- ting her has almost caught up. Calmly she lifts her hand and with a roar the flames spring forth.

Between the smoldering remains of a farm stands a dwarf, seemingly made up of crystal. He holds a small, wooden toy, the last puzzle piece to the mystery of an old queen’s greed. As the dwarf leaves this memory, the farm fades away.

Dream shifters have merged with a surreal being born from a dream. To be a dream shifter means to embrace aspects of oneself one can neither understand nor control, to transform and bring them to the surface. These fantastic powers allow dream shifters to overcome inner and outer limitations and to push even deeper into the unknown.

Fantastic Fusion
----------------

Each dream shifter has entered a symbiosis with an eidolon, an unstable creature from the dream realm. This link allows them to manifest their features in the material world. Depending on their eidolon a dream shifter can be a horrifying monster or a soothing presence. Even though their forms are shifting and unstable, dream shifters have learned to use them as a means of survival and channel them into their own kind of magic.

About the journey
-----------------

Dreamers who visit the dream realm will find a place of constant change. There, shapeshifters called eidolons feed on their excess psychic energies. They take the form of the dreamer's fears, memories, and wishes confronting them with hidden aspects of themselves.

In rare cases an eidolon connects permanently to the dreamer's mind, creating a symbiotic bond between the two. The dreamer starts taking the shape of their own fears, memories, or wishes in the material world, becoming a dream shifter.

These surreal transformations often lead dream shifters away from civilization. They embrace the chaos their eidolon has brought to the surface and wander free.

In a world where the lines are already drawn, and the sides are chosen dream shifters stand in as champions of the contradictory and irrational. As with themselves, things are seldom as they seem. There is always a second layer worth another look, something unexpected that is waiting to happen.
