Wildkeeper
==========

Holding true to his instincts, a wood elf stands still in a silent grove, waiting as the hordes of undead surround him. At the very last second, a bright burst of light zips from a nearby tree to his shoulder. Bringing his palm up to caress the face of his companion, he is now confident in his victory.

Watching from the darkness, a half-orc crawls through the mud as rain pours down overhead. He is a blade in the night, unseen and unheard. However, as he stealthily moves beside the underbrush towards his target, he is aware that he is not the only predator stalking his prey. A flash of purple mist disperses just as quick as it occurred, revealing a creature with the visage of a skeletal wolf, its jaws firmly clamped deep into the neck of the half-orc's target.

Searching through the masses of bodies after a battle, a dwarven soldier cries out for his missing half. With the speed of a cracking whip, a small squirrel-like creature appears at his side, chirping in a sing-songy voice. He smiles down at the animal, as if welcoming an old friend.

Be they a pair on a covert mission to assassinate a political figure, or a powerful general riding his spirit into battle, a wildkeeper and his spirit animal are representatives of the raw strength achieved by joining man and beast. They are not gods, nor are they of the fey or druids. On the contrary, they are simply a devastating reminder of the power two parties can obtain when they work together. When a wildkeeper is born, their spirit gives life to an animal companion. This animal companion is usually brought to the physical world for the first time through a ceremony, or some other ritual.

Hard-Fought Victors
-------------------

Hailing from the forests, wildkeepers focus on training their bonded animals. They practice fighting techniques known only to them, complimenting their combat abilities with that of their wildbond's. Wildkeepers focus their energy on strengthening their bonds to further unlock the capabilities of their spirit animal.

However magical their spirit bond may seem, not every wildkeeper knows spells, as their spirits do not pull from the weave, but from the natural energies of the Material Plane. Due to this source, they are often observed meditating in nature, as a form of hardening one's inner power.

Never Alone
-----------

Whether a baker, farmer, soldier, or mercenary, a wildkeeper will never be without his closest ally. Often times, their bond will grant them attention from those unknowing of wildkeeper traditions, be it negative or positive. Regardless, they are well respected for their tactical abilities on the battlefield, and their well spoken diplomacy off of it. That's not to say that wildkeepers are always friendly. Some wildkeepers draw their bond's power not from companionship, but from lust for power. As they feed their wildbond's ego, so too does their's grow as well. A wildkeeper's spirit animal will always reflect the true nature of their match.
