Adventurer's Guild
==================

The most famous of the guilds, adventurer's guilds, otherwise known as adventuring companies, are groups of skilled individuals that can be hired to accomplish a wide variety of tasks, commonly referred to as quests. These adventurer's guilds can have numerous different rules and customs depending on their guild master. Adventurer's guilds can be found in just about every notable settlement in the world. They often provide shelter, resources, and assistance to its members. Many of the heroes and legends in numerous stories were often adventurers.

The Dormont Adventuring Company 
-------------------------------

Out of all the adventuring companies in the known world, none come even close to rivaling the power, reach, and importance of the Dormont Adventuring Company. When someone talks about an adventurer's guild 95 times out of 100 they are talking about one of the countless guilds run by the Dormont Adventuring Company. While the details of the Dormant Adventuring Company are largely a mystery, they have managed to practically own the entire industry. The company has basically created the standards of business for adventurers. In fact, there are rumors that the company itself was founded by the first people to call themselves adventurers. Despite all of that, however, the countless guilds under the Dormont Adventuring Company all operate autonomously and have their own guild master who oversees the guild. Other than following the guidelines established by the company, reporting all matters of business, and paying a portion of profit to the company the guilds have a saw in how they are run. In one town, those seeking to be adventurers may be required to take some sort of physical test while in others only a fee may be required. Membership in one of the company's guilds automatically grants membership to every guild under the company. Given the nature of the adventurer's guilds, it is common for them to have close ties to their host nations and there are even a few guilds that establish a ranking system at the request of the nation.
